[WIP, needs vote before merging] collection_requirements.rst: update (#1422)
ansible/ansible-documentation: docs/docsite/rst/community/collection_contributors/collection_requirements.rst

Ansible community package collections requirements
**************************************************

.. contents::
    :local:

Overview
========

This document describes the requirements for maintainers of Ansible community collections included in the Ansible community package. All inclusion candidates and already included collections must meet the criteria marked with ``MUST`` in this document.

> In addition, you can use the `Collection inclusion criteria checklist <https://github.com/ansible-collections/overview/blob/main/collection_checklist.md>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also find these requirements on the `Collection inclusion criteria checklist <https://github.com/ansible-collections/overview/blob/main/collection_checklist.md>`_.
```

Every rejected candidate will get feedback from the :ref:`community_steering_committee` based on a decision made in a dedicated :ref:`community topic<creating_community_topic>`.

Feedback and communications
==============================

> Any feedback and help is very welcome. Please create a :ref:`community topic<creating_community_topic>` or bring up your questions in the :ref:`community meeting<community_wg_meetings>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Any feedback and help is very welcome. Please create a :ref:`community topic<creating_community_topic>` or bring your questions to the :ref:`community meeting<community_wg_meetings>`.
```

Collection infrastructure
=========================

The following guidelines describe the required structure for your collection:

* MUST have a publicly available issue tracker that does not require a paid level of service to create an account or view issues.
* MUST have a Code of Conduct (CoC).

>   * The recommended approach is to have a link to the :ref:`code_of_conduct` from a collection's ``README.md`` or ``CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md`` file.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  * The recommended approach is to have a link to the  Ansible :ref:`code_of_conduct` from a collection's ``README.md`` or ``CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md`` file.
```

  * If the collection has its own CoC, it MUST be evaluated by the :ref:`Diversity and Inclusion working group <working_group_list>` and confirmed as compatible with the :ref:`code_of_conduct`.

* MUST be published to `Ansible Galaxy <https://galaxy.ansible.com>`_ with version 1.0.0 or later.

> * MUST only contain objects that follow the :ref:`Licensing rules <coll_licensing_req>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* MUST contain only objects that follow the :ref:`Licensing rules <coll_licensing_req>`.
```

Collection infrastructure
=========================

The following guidelines describe the required structure for your collection:

* MUST have a publicly available issue tracker that does not require a paid level of service to create an account or view issues.
* MUST have a publicly available issue tracker that does not require a paid level of service to create an account and to create and view issues.
* MUST have the issue feature enabled in its repository and accept issue reports from anyone.
* MUST have a Code of Conduct (CoC).

  * The collection's CoC MUST be compatible with the :ref:`code_of_conduct`.
  * The collections SHOULD consider using the Ansible CoC if they do not have a CoC that they consider better.
  * The :ref:`Diversity and Inclusion working group <working_group_list>` may evaluate all CoCs and object to a collection's inclusion based on the CoCs contents.

>   * The CoC MUST be linked from the ``README.md`` file, or MUST be present or linked from the ``CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md`` file in the collection root.

Reviewer 4: Why not having it be linked from README anymore?

Author: Lost during re-formulation process:) back now, thanks!

Author: I'm also not sure if we need to have diversity & inclusion wg involvement here.. is it alive? could we just request a link to the Ansible CoC? It's not bad:) Also we don't have a mechanism to implement this and also their conclusion s probably don't have any legal power and they are not lawyers to have skills to say for sure if two documents are compatible or not.
This statement imo unreasonably complicates the process. ~~I'll remove it now.~~ UPDATE: i don't know how to handle this considering my point above...
Feedback is welcome

Reviewer 4: We don't want to force the Ansible CoC on every organization / collection that's included. This will likely make it impossible for some organizations to get their collection included. So I guess we still need the WG, even though it seems to be pretty inactivate right now.

Author: It's not gonna work with the WG or w/o imo.
If there aren't lawyers or any other people with special skills to evaluate docs _compatibility_, there's no difference between us and them, so we can "evaluate" them ourselves based on our personal and very subjective feelings.
How about just requiring a CoC with a recommendation to have a link to the Ansible CoC dropping all that stuff about WG and  subjective-in-our-case compatibility?

Reviewer 4: I'm still against just changing it as a small part of such a huge PR. This is IMO an important thing that needs its own discussion, and that discussion has to include the Diversity and Inclusion WG.

Author: SGTM, is leaving it as is for now fine?

> The following guidelines describe the required structure for your collection:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following guidelines describe the required infrastructure for your collection:
```

====================================================

* ``module_utils`` and ``plugin_utils`` can be marked for only internal use in the collection, but they MUST document this and MUST use a leading underscore for file names.

>   * It is a breaking change when you make an existing ``module_utils`` private, in which case the collection requires a major version bump.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * If you change a utility in ``module_utils`` from public to private, you are making a breaking change. If you do this, you must release a new major version of your collection.
```

====================================================

* ``module_utils`` and ``plugin_utils`` can be marked for only internal use in the collection, but they MUST document this and MUST use a leading underscore for file names.

>   * It is a breaking change when you make an existing ``module_utils`` private and in that case the collection requires a major version bump.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * It is a breaking change when you make an existing ``module_utils`` private, in which case the collection requires a major version bump.
```

Reviewer 2: Should this be formatted as a note rather than an indented list item?

Author: If i understand it correctly, we agreed to put "main" statements at the top level and all related notes will go at the next level with respect to them.

Example: `meta/runtime.yml <https://github.com/ansible-collections/collection_template/blob/main/meta/runtime.yml>`_

> * The ``meta/runtime.yml`` MUST define the minimum version of ansible-core which this collection works with. For example, if the collection works with ansible-core 2.16 and later, then this should be set to ``>=2.16``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The ``meta/runtime.yml`` MUST define the minimum version of ansible-core which this collection works with using the ``requires_ansible`` field. For example, if the collection works with ansible-core 2.16 and later, set ``requires_ansible: '>=2.16'`` in the ``meta/runtime.yml`` file.
```

Example: `meta/runtime.yml <https://github.com/ansible-collections/collection_template/blob/main/meta/runtime.yml>`_

> * The ``meta/runtime.yml`` MUST define the minimum version of ansible-core which this collection works with. For example, if the collection works with ansible-core 2.16, then this should be set to ``>=2.16``.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* The ``meta/runtime.yml`` MUST define the minimum version of ansible-core which this collection works with. For example, if the collection works with ansible-core 2.16 and later, then this should be set to ``>=2.16``.
```

Example: `meta/runtime.yml <https://github.com/ansible-collections/collection_template/blob/main/meta/runtime.yml>`_

* The ``meta/runtime.yml`` MUST define the minimum version of ansible-core which this collection works with.

>   * If the collection works with ansible-core 2.16, then this should be set to `>=2.16`.

Reviewer 5: I don't think it makes sense to change this line to reference 2.16. The point of the line was less as an example, and more to specify that if Ansible 2.9 is supported, it should not support `<2.9.10` because of various collection-supporting bugfixes that were not included in earlier versions.

As a result, the reference to "Ansible" in the line above it is more accurate than changing it to ansible-core, since we're not really talking about the specific package name, but more like "Ansible" the product.

If we were to disallow collections that support 2.9 at all, then I think we would remove this line (or change it to set an absolute minimum for the value in `runtime.yml`) but I don't any reason why we would do that.

Author: @briantist could you please take a look at the current section state (we've committed several changes in it) and suggest changes if still needed?

Author: assuming it's OK as no response:)

>   * It is usually better to avoid adding `<2.16` as a restriction, since this for example makes it impossible to use the collection with the current ansible-core devel branch.

Reviewer 5: Maybe we should consider rewording this to avoid having to keep changing the versions referenced? Something along the lines of
> it is usually better to avoid setting an upper-bound on the supported version...

or

> it is usually better to use no upper bound or to set it to the _next expected_ version, rather than the current stable version...

Author: should we maybe remove it at all? I don't remember any such cases in submitted collections. i don't think anybody will come up with this solution on its own if it's not really necessary in their case. We can always put it back if we notice. It's a recommendation anyway.
Removed not to forget (but ready to put it back if needed)

Other directories
-----------------

* Collections MUST not use files outside ``meta/``, ``plugins/``, ``roles/`` and ``playbooks/`` in any plugin, role, or playbook that can be called by FQCN, used from other collections, or used from user playbooks and roles.

  * A collection MUST work if every file or directory is deleted from the installed collection except those four directories and their contents.
  * Internal plugins, roles and playbooks (artifacts used only in testing, or only to release the collection, or only for some other internal purpose and not used externally) are exempt from this rule and may rely on files in other directories.

.. _coll_docs_structure_reqs:

Documentation requirements
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Collections:

* ``MUST`` use :ref:`links and formatting macros <linking-and-other-format-macros-within-module-documentation>`.
* ``SHOULD`` have contributor guidelines in the ``CONTRIBUTING.md`` or ``README.md`` file.

All modules and plugins:

* ``MUST`` include a :ref:`DOCUMENTATION <documentation-block>` block.
* ``MUST`` include an :ref:`EXAMPLES <examples-block>` block (except where not relevant for the plugin type).

> * ``MUST`` Use FQCNs when referring to modules, plugins and documentation fragments inside and outside the collection including ``ansible.builtin.`` for ansible-core.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ``MUST`` use FQCNs when referring to modules, plugins and documentation fragments inside and outside the collection including ``ansible.builtin.`` for ansible-core.
```

* ``MUST`` include a :ref:`RETURN <return-block>` block for modules and other plugins that return data.
* ``MUST`` include the ``version_added`` field when adding new content to an existing collection for entities that support it, for example, for modules, plugins, options, return values, and attributes.

  * You do not have to add ``version_added`` when creating a new collection before its first release.

>   * Declare the version of the collection in which the options were added -- ``NOT`` the version of Ansible/ansible-core.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * Declare the version of the collection in which the options were added -- ``NOT`` the version of Ansible or ansible-core.
```

>   * Declare the version of the collection in which the options were added -- ``NOT`` the version of Ansible or ansible-core.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * The ``version_added`` field for objects in a collection MUST refer to the version of the collection in which the options were added -- ``NOT`` the version of Ansible or ansible-core.
```

>     * If you for some reason really have to specify version numbers of Ansible or of another collection, you also ``MUST`` to provide ``version_added_collection: collection_name``. We strongly recommend to ``NOT`` do this.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * If, for some reason, you need to specify version numbers of Ansible or another collection, you ``MUST`` also provide ``version_added_collection: collection_name``. We strongly recommend to ``NOT`` do this.
```

Reviewer 2: Since this is something we strongly recommend against, can we add some justification for that? Does ``version_added_collection: collection_name`` result in longer term maintenance headaches? Does it lead to user confusion?

Author: Good catch. I don't remember the context of this and can't come up with possible scenarios. Maybe it was relevant for the time right after the ansible/ansible split and could be removed now.
@felixfontein maybe you remember why someone might want to do it?

Other directories
-----------------

> Collections MUST not use files outside ``meta/``, ``plugins/``, ``roles/`` and ``playbooks/`` in any plugin, role, or playbook that can be called by FQCN, used from other collections, or used from user playbooks and roles. A collection must work if every file or directory is deleted from the installed collection except those four directories and their contents.

Reviewer 4: Please re-add this sentence. It is extremely vital to not destroy collections when building the Ansible package.

Author: done. restructured it a bit, thanks

Other directories
-----------------

> Collections MUST not use files outside ``meta/``, ``plugins/``, ``roles/`` and ``playbooks/`` in any plugin, role, or playbook that can be called by FQCN, used from other collections, or used from user playbooks and roles.

Reviewer 3: how do we handle collections that include eda plugins? I know docs, ansible-doc etc can't work with them, but they are in an `extensions/eda` dir today. Would that mean the collection is excluded from the package?

Reviewer 4: Currently such collections aren't allowed. I guess we should allow them, but let's do that in a separate PR. Too many changes in one PR is not a good idea.

Author: yes, let's do it in a separate PR and not prematurely

Documentation requirements
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Collections:

* ``MUST`` use :ref:`links and formatting macros <linking-and-other-format-macros-within-module-documentation>`.
* ``SHOULD`` have contributor guidelines in the ``CONTRIBUTING.md`` or ``README.md`` file.

All modules and plugins:

* ``MUST`` include a :ref:`DOCUMENTATION <documentation-block>` block.
* ``MUST`` include an :ref:`EXAMPLES <examples-block>` block (except where not relevant for the plugin type).
* ``MUST`` Use FQCNs when referring to modules, plugins and documentation fragments inside and outside the collection including ``ansible.builtin.`` for ansible-core.

> * ``SHOULD`` include a :ref:`RETURN <return-block>` block for modules.

Reviewer 4: I would suggest to change this to MUST:
```suggestion
* ``MUST`` include a :ref:`RETURN <return-block>` block for modules and other plugins that return data.
```
While it's OK if existing collections don't update all their existing documentation IMO, this should really be a requirement for new collections.

Author: 100% agreed

> * ``MUST`` include the ``version_added`` field when adding new content to an existing collection for entities that support it, for example, for modules, plugins, options, and return values.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* ``MUST`` include the ``version_added`` field when adding new content to an existing collection for entities that support it, for example, for modules, plugins, options, return values, and attributes.
```

* Include a :ref:`DOCUMENTATION <documentation-block>` block.
* Include an :ref:`EXAMPLES <examples-block>` block (except where not relevant for the plugin type).
* Use FQCNs when referring to modules, plugins and documentation fragments inside and outside the collection including ``ansible.builtin.`` for ansible-core.
  
When using ``version_added`` in the documentation:

* Declare the version of the collection in which the options were added -- NOT the version of Ansible/ansible-core.
* If you for some reason really have to specify version numbers of Ansible or of another collection, you also have to provide ``version_added_collection: collection_name``. We strongly recommend to NOT do this.

> * Include ``version_added`` when you add new content (modules, plugins, options, return values) to an existing collection. The values are shown in the documentation and can be useful, but you do not need to add ``version_added`` to every option, module, and plugin when creating a new collection.

Reviewer 5: Not sure how to word this but it also applies to config manager sub-sections of plugin options, like `ini`, `vars`, etc.

Author: good point, me too, any suggestions are welcome

Reviewer 3: if you can point me to an example, I might be able to help with the wording. Not sure what a config-manager subsection might be (other than the two given in the comment).

Other items:

* The ``CONTRIBUTING.md`` (or ``README.md``) file MUST state what types of contributions (pull requests, feature requests, and so on) are accepted and any relevant contributor guidance. Issues (bugs and feature requests) reports MUST always be accepted.

> * Collections are encouraged to use z:ref:`links and formatting macros <linking-and-other-format-macros-within-module-documentation>`

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* Collections are encouraged to use :ref:`links and formatting macros <linking-and-other-format-macros-within-module-documentation>`
```

Changelogs
----------

> * Collections MUST include a changelog in the `correct format <https://github.com/ansible-community/antsibull-changelog/blob/main/docs/changelog.yaml-format.md>`_.

Reviewer 4: How about referencing the published version of that document?
```suggestion
* Collections MUST include a changelog in the `correct format <https://ansible.readthedocs.io/projects/antsibull-changelog/changelog.yaml-format/>`_.
```

>   #. You can generate or check it using `antsibull-changelog <https://github.com/ansible-community/antsibull-changelog>`_ to give a consistent feel for changelogs across collections included in the ``ansible`` package.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  #. You can generate or check changelogs using `antsibull-changelog <https://github.com/ansible-community/antsibull-changelog>`_, which provides consistency for changelogs across collections included in the ``ansible`` package.
```

>   #. You can generate or check changelogs using `antsibull-changelog <https://github.com/ansible-community/antsibull-changelog>`_, which provides consistency for changelogs across collections included in the ``ansible`` package.

Reviewer 4: How about adding a link to the documentation:
```suggestion
  #. You can generate or check changelogs using `antsibull-changelog <https://github.com/ansible-community/antsibull-changelog>`_ (`documentation <https://ansible.readthedocs.io/projects/antsibull-changelog/changelogs/>`_), which provides consistency for changelogs across collections included in the ``ansible`` package.
```

Author: sounds great, thanks!

Changelogs
----------

Collections MUST include a changelog. You can choose one of the following options:

#. Use `antsibull-changelog <https://github.com/ansible-community/antsibull-changelog>`_: to give a consistent feel for changelogs across collections included in the ``ansible`` package. This is the **recommended** tool to maintain and generate your changelog.
#. Provide ``changelogs/changelog.yaml`` in the `correct format <https://github.com/ansible-community/antsibull-changelog/blob/main/docs/changelog.yaml-format.md>`_. (You can use ``antsibull-lint changelog-yaml /path/to/changelog.yaml`` to validate the format.)

> #. Provide a link to the changelog file (self-hosted) (not recommended).

Reviewer 4: Should we still allow collections to use something else than `changelogs/changelog.yaml`? I really like the unified changelog.

If someone doesn't want to create changelog fragments, they can always use [antsichaut](https://github.com/ansible-community/antsichaut/) or create something similar for their use-case.

Author: The unified changelog SGTM, please suggest wording

Reviewer 4: The current formulation sounds good to me.

Changelogs
----------

Collections MUST include a changelog. You can choose one of the following options:

> #. Use `antsibull-changelog <https://github.com/ansible-community/antsibull-changelog>`_: to give a consistent feel for changelogs across collections included in the ``ansible`` package we **recommend** you use this tool to maintain and generate your changelog.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
#. Use `antsibull-changelog <https://github.com/ansible-community/antsibull-changelog>`_: to give a consistent feel for changelogs across collections included in the ``ansible`` package. This is the **recommended** tool to maintain and generate your changelog.
```

Versioning and deprecation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> * Collections MUST adhere to `Semantic versioning convention <https://semver.org/>`_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Collections MUST adhere to `Semantic versioning conventions <https://semver.org/>`_.
```

> * To preserve backward compatibility for users, every Ansible minor version series (x.Y.z) will keep the major version of a collection constant. If Ansible 3.0.0 includes ``community.general`` 2.2.0, then each 3.Y.z (3.1.z, 3.2.z, and so on) release will include the latest ``community.general`` 2.y.z release available at build time. Ansible 3.y.z will **never** include a ``community.general`` 3.y.z release, even if it is available. Major collection version changes will be included in the next Ansible major release (4.0.0 in this example).

Reviewer 3: All of these bullet points below are clarifying semantic versioning. Maybe it will read better if they are all indented further so they look like a subset of semantic versioning.

Author: Did some restructuring. Let me know if it's OK or too much

  * You can only remove things or make breaking changes in major releases.
* We recommend that you ensure that if a deprecation is added in a collection version that is included in Ansible 3.y.z, the removal itself will only happen in a collection version included in Ansible 5.0.0 or later, but not in a collection version included in Ansible 4.0.0.

> * Content moved from ansible/ansible that was scheduled for removal in 2.11 or later MUST NOT be removed in the current major release available when ansible 2.10.0 is released. Otherwise it would already be removed in 2.10, unexpectedly for users! Deprecation cycles can be shortened (since they are now uncoupled from ansible or ansible-base versions), but existing ones must not be unexpectedly terminated.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```

Reviewer 3: This section is now old and should be removed.

  * You can only remove things or make breaking changes in major releases.
* We recommend that you ensure that if a deprecation is added in a collection version that is included in Ansible 3.y.z, the removal itself will only happen in a collection version included in Ansible 5.0.0 or later, but not in a collection version included in Ansible 4.0.0.
* Content moved from ansible/ansible that was scheduled for removal in 2.11 or later MUST NOT be removed in the current major release available when ansible 2.10.0 is released. Otherwise it would already be removed in 2.10, unexpectedly for users! Deprecation cycles can be shortened (since they are now uncoupled from ansible or ansible-base versions), but existing ones must not be unexpectedly terminated.

> * The collection policy of releasing, versioning and deprecation MUST be announced to contributors and users in some way. For an example of how to do this, see `the announcement in community.general <https://github.com/ansible-collections/community.general/issues/582>`_. You could also do this in the README.

Reviewer 5: This looks like a change from (implied) SHOULD to MUST, do we need to discuss it? I might also recommend we use the verb "publish" instead of "announce" since what this is really recommending/requiring is that the policy is published (available) and not that it's announced (sent/pushed as an event).

Author: the wording you're suggesting SGTM
also i thought it was a must because it looks like a must according to https://github.com/ansible-collections/overview/blob/main/collection_checklist.md :) IMO it makes sense to require it but, sure, we'll discuss this. Anyway we'll vote on this overhaul i think

Author: Oh, now i think that we shouldn't introduce new requirements.. i've made it a should. we should update the checklist to prevent requiring shoulds as musts in future:)

Collection naming
-----------------

When choosing a name for a brand new namespace:

* Take into consideration the `Namespace limitations <https://galaxy.ansible.com/docs/contributing/namespaces.html#galaxy-namespace-limitations>`_ which list requirements for namespaces in Galaxy.
* If the namespace does not exit yet and is not occupied by anybody else, submit a `namespace request <https://github.com/ansible/galaxy/issues/new/choose>`_ to have it created for you.

Naming recommendations:

* For collections under the ``ansible-collections`` GitHub organization the repository SHOULD be named ``NAMESPACE.COLLECTION``.
* For collections created for working with a particular entity, they should contain the entity name, for example ``community.mysql``.
* For corporate maintained collections, the repository can be named ``COMPANY_NAME.PRODUCT_NAME``, for example ``ibm.db2``.
* Avoid FQCN/repository names:

>   * which are unnecessary long: try to make it compact but clear.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * which are unnecessarily long: try to make it compact but clear.
```

  * contain the same words / collocations in ``NAMESPACE`` and ``COLLECTION`` parts, for example ``my_system.my_system``.

.. note::

>   If your collection is planned to be certified on **Red Hat Automation Hub**, please consult with Red Hat Partner Engineering through ``ansiblepartners@redhat.com`` to ensure collection naming compatibility between the community collection on **Galaxy**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you plan to get your collection certified on **Red Hat Automation Hub**, please consult with Red Hat Partner Engineering through ``ansiblepartners@redhat.com`` to ensure collection naming compatibility between the community collection on **Galaxy** and the certified collection.
```

.. _coll_module_name_req:

Module naming
-------------

* Modules that only gather and return information MUST be named ``<something>_info``.

> * Modules that gather and return ``ansible_facts`` MUST be named ``<something>_facts`` and MUST NOT return non-facts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Modules that gather and return ``ansible_facts`` MUST be named ``<something>_facts`` and MUST NOT return anything but facts.
```

Reviewer 4: How about `... MUST NOT return anything but facts.`? The `MUST NOT` has a defined meaning (in that RFC referenced at the top of the doc IIRC), while `MUST ONLY` is something not defined there.

Author: @acozine i edited your suggestion for convenience. Agreed with Felix. If you disagree, please raise another suggestion

For more information, refer to the :ref:`Developing modules guidelines <creating-an-info-or-a-facts-module>`.

.. _coll_licensing_req:

Collection licensing requirements
===================================

These guidelines are the policy for inclusion in the Ansible package and are in addition to any licensing and legal concerns that may otherwise affect your code.

.. note::

  The guidelines below are more restrictive than strictly necessary. We will try to add a larger list of acceptable licenses once we have approval from Red Hat Legal.

There are several types of content in collections which licensing has to address in different ways.

* The content that MUST be licensed with a free software license that is **compatible with** the `GPL-3.0-or-later <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0-standalone.html>`_:

>   * The ``modules/`` directory content

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * The ``modules/`` directory content.
```

  * The ``module_utils/`` directory content: ansible-core itself typically uses the `BSD-2-clause <https://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-2-Clause>`_ license to make it possible for third-party modules which are licensed incompatibly with the GPLv3 to use them.Please consider this use case when licensing your own ``module_utils``.
  * Code outside ``plugins/``: if it DOES NOT import code licensed under ``GPL-3.0-or-later`` it may be licensed under another license compatible with ``GPL-3.0-or-later``.

>   * Non-code content

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * Non-code content.
```

  * To be allowed, the license MUST be considered open source and compatible with ``GPL-3.0-or-later`` on **both**:

>     * the `gnu.org license list <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/license-list.html#GPLCompatibleLicenses>`_ and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * The `gnu.org license list <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/license-list.html#GPLCompatibleLicenses>`_.
```

>     * the `Debian Free Software Guidelines <https://wiki.debian.org/DFSGLicenses>`_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * The `Debian Free Software Guidelines <https://wiki.debian.org/DFSGLicenses>`_.
```

* The content that MUST be licensed with the `GPL-3.0-or-later <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0-standalone.html>`_:

  * All other code in the ``plugins/`` directory except code under the ``modules/`` and ``module_utils/`` directories (see above): these plugins are run inside of the Ansible controller process which is licensed under the ``GPL-3.0-or-later`` and often must import code from the controller. For these reasons, ``GPL-3.0-or-later`` MUST be used.

>   * Code outside ``plugins/``: if it imports any other code that is licensed under ``GPL-3.0-or-later``. Note that this applies in particular to unit tests that often import code from ansible-core, plugins/, module_utils/, or modules/, and such code is often licensed under ``GPL-3.0-or-later``.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * Code outside ``plugins/``: if it imports any other code that is licensed under ``GPL-3.0-or-later``. Note that this applies in particular to unit tests that often import code from ansible-core, ``plugins/``, ``module_utils/``, or ``modules/``, and such code is often licensed under ``GPL-3.0-or-later``.
```

All new repositories MUST have ``main`` as the default branch.

Existing repositories SHOULD be converted to use ``main``.

> 

Reviewer 5: Why remove this?

Author: > Why remove this?

@briantist this was relevant after that decision to convert was made and we converted where we could and created issues in **all** other repos under ansible-collections. Who wanted already did it and new repos are created there with `main`. ~~Maybe we should rephrase it somehow~~ UPDATE: yes, i see now that there's the requirement for all newly submitted repos to have `main`, so this line is extra imo

.. note::

>   You can copy the free-to-use `GitHub action workflow file <https://github.com/ansible-collections/collection_template/blob/main/.github/workflows/ansible-test.yml>`_ from the `collection_template <https://github.com/ansible-collections/collection_template/>`_ repository to the `.github/workflows` directory in your collection to set up testing through GitHub actions. The workflow covers all the requirements below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  You can copy the free-to-use `GitHub action workflow file <https://github.com/ansible-collections/collection_template/blob/main/.github/workflows/ansible-test.yml>`_ from the `collection_template <https://github.com/ansible-collections/collection_template/>`_ repository to the ``.github/workflows`` directory in your collection to set up testing through GitHub actions. The workflow covers all the requirements below.
```

  Add new `ansible-core` versions in a timely manner and consider dropping support and testing against its EOL versions and versions your collection does not support.

>   If your collection repository is under the ``ansible-collections`` GitHub organization, please keep in mind that the number of testing jobs is limited and shared across all the collections in the organization. Therefore, focusing on good test coverage of your collection, please avoid testing against unnecessary entities such as ``ansible-core`` EOL versions your collection does not support.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  If your collection repository is under the ``ansible-collections`` GitHub organization, please keep in mind that the number of testing jobs is limited and shared across all the collections in the organization. Therefore, focusing on good test coverage of your collection, please avoid testing against unnecessary entities such as ``ansible-core`` EOL versions that your collection does not support.
```

* Join the `Collection Maintainers & Contributors <https://forum.ansible.com/g/CollectionMaintainer>`_ forum group.

* You MUST run the ``ansible-test sanity`` command from the `latest stable ansible-base/ansible-core branch <https://github.com/ansible/ansible/branches/all?query=stable->`_.

  * Collections MUST run an equivalent of the ``ansible-test sanity --docker`` command.

    * If they do not use ``--docker``, they must make sure that all tests run, in particular the compile and import tests (which should run for all :ref:`supported Python versions <ansible-and-python-3>`).
    * Collections can choose to skip certain Python versions that they explicitly do not support; this needs to be documented in ``README.md`` and in every module and plugin (hint: use a docs fragment). However, we strongly recommend you follow the :ref:`Ansible Python Compatibility <ansible-and-python-3>` section for more details.

* You SHOULD *additionally* run ``ansible-test sanity`` from the ansible/ansible ``devel`` branch so that you find out about new linting requirements earlier.
* The sanity tests MUST pass.

>   * You SHOULD avoid adding entries to the ``test/sanity/ignore*.txt`` files to get your tests to pass but it is allowed except cases listed below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * You SHOULD avoid adding entries to the ``test/sanity/ignore*.txt`` files to get your tests to pass but it is allowed except in cases listed below.
```

        1. A dangerous module parameter has been deprecated or removed, and code is present to inform the user that they should not use this specific parameter anymore or that it stopped working intentionally.
        2. Module parameters are only used to pass in data from an accompanying action plugin.

>   * All entries in ``ignore-*.txt`` files MUST have a justification in a comment in the files for each entry.  For example ``plugins/modules/docker_container.py use-argspec-type-path # uses colon-separated paths, can't use type=path``.

Reviewer 4: Why remove the second bullet point?

Author: Reviewers can do it anyway: not to put a check in the checkbox, not to put +1 for inclusion, raise objection within the default collection inclusion period - plenty of mechanisms:)
So it's an extra statement imo

Author: i'll just remove option 3

Author: Reformulated, PTAL

Reviewer 4: I don't see where `Reviewers can block acceptance of a new collection if they don't agree with the ignores.txt entries.` or something equivalent ended up.

Author: as i wrote a bit above reviewers can block acceptance in case of any discrepancy with the requirements, so it's imo an excess statement

Reviewer 4: Ah, then I misread. I still don't feel good about removing this though.

        1. A dangerous module parameter has been deprecated or removed, and code is present to inform the user that they should not use this specific parameter anymore or that it stopped working intentionally.
        2. Module parameters are only used to pass in data from an accompanying action plugin.

>   * All entries in ignore-*.txt files MUST have a justification in a comment in the files for each entry.  For example ``plugins/modules/docker_container.py use-argspec-type-path # uses colon-separated paths, can't use type=path``.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  * All entries in `ignore-*.txt` files MUST have a justification in a comment in the files for each entry.  For example `plugins/modules/docker_container.py use-argspec-type-path # uses colon-separated paths, can't use type=path`.
```

Author: I'm not an expert but i think two apostrophes would work better here

Collections and Working Groups
==============================

The collections are encouraged to request a working group on the :ref:`ansible_forum`.

.. _coll_migrating_reqs:

When moving modules between collections
=======================================

See :ref:`Migrating content to a different collection <migrate_to_collection>` for complete details.

.. _coll_development_conventions:

Development conventions
=======================

> Make sure your modules:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All modules in your collection:
```

> Requirements for collections to be included in the Ansible Package

Reviewer 3: This whole page is about the requirements for inclusion. Maybe this section goes away and you just put lines 510-512 at the top of the page?

Author: very good point, done, thanks!

Requirements for collections to be included in the Ansible Package
==================================================================

> To be included in the `ansible` package, collections MUST meet the criteria marked with ``MUST`` in this document.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
To be included in the `ansible` package, collections MUST meet the criteria marked with `MUST` in this document.
```

Author: i think this is a correct formatting (am not an expert though)
